# Introduction
## Quotes
- Every group of people I ask thinks the world is more frightening, more violent, and more hopeless - in short, more dramatic - than it really is. (Page 9)
- Working late one night at the university I had a eureka moment. I realized the problem couldn't simply be that people lacked the knowledge, because that would give randomly incorrect answers - chimpanzee answers - rather than worse-than-random, worse-than-chimpanzee, systematically wrong answers. Only actively wrong "knowledge" can make us score so badly. (Page 11)
- Think about the world. War, violence, natural disasters, man-made disasters, corruption. Things are bad, and it feels like they are getting worse, right? The rich are getting richer and the poor are getting poorer; and the number of poor just keeps increasing; and we will soon run out of resources unless we do something drastic. At least that's the picture that most Westerners see in the media and carry around in their heads. I call it the overdramatic worldview. It's stressful and misleading. (Page 13)
- Step-by-step, year-by-year, the world is improving. Not on every single measure every single year, but as a rule. Though the world faces huge challenges, we have made tremendous progress. This is the fact-based worldview. (Page 13)
- Our brains often jump to swift conclusions without much thinking, which used to help us to avoid immediate dangers. We are interested in gossip and dramatic stories, which used to be the only source of news and useful information. We crave sugar and fat, which used to be life-saving sources of energy when food was scarce. We have many instincts that used to be useful thousands of years ago, but we live in a very different world now. (Page 14)
- Uncontrolled, our appetite for the dramatic goes too far, prevents us from seeing the world as it is, and leads us terribly astray. (Page 15)
- This is data as you have never known it; it is data as therapy. It is understanding as a source of mental peace. Because the world is not as dramatic as it seems. (Page 15)
